MTM-60574 changelog, fix for slow validation of smartrules sources … (#2595)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-10-20-604-0-improved-performance-of-smartrules-creation-and-update.md

---
date:

> title: Improved performance of local smartrules creation and update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Improved performance of local smart rules creation and update
```

product_area: Platform services
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Improvement
component:
  - value: component-YdSEScrEC
    label: Cockpit
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-60574
version: 10.20.604.0
---

> Previously, the request time for creation of a Smartrule or updating a Smartrule was increasing with a number of `enabledSources` or `disabledSources`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the request time for creating or updating a smart rule increased with the number of enabled or disabled sources. 
```

> Therefore it was recommended to not select the **Activate also for <number> child assets** checkbox when a local smart rule was created on a group containing many devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore it was recommended to not select the **Activate also for &lt;number&gt; child assets** checkbox when a local smart rule was created on a group containing many devices.
```

> Because of this, it was recommended to not choose _"Activate also for <number> child assets"_ checkbox when local Smartrule was created on a group containing many devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore it was recommended to not select the **Activate also for <number> child assets** checkbox when a local smart rule was created on a group containing many devices.
```

> With the new version the performance of requests was improved in validation area and now updating a Smartrule with single device ID added or removed from `enabledSources` or `disabledSources` is very fast. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this change the performance of requests has been improved and now updating a smart rule by adding or removing a single device ID from the list of enabled or disabled sources (`enabledSources` or `disabledSources`) is very fast. 
```

> Additionally, creation of a local Smartrule is very fast in case of a big number of **direct** children of a top level group. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, creating a local smart rule has become much faster in case of a large number of **direct** children of a top-level group. 
```

> In case of deeper inventory hierarchies only the first level of hierarchy is validated faster, so requests for local Smartrule creation can still take a long time 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of deeper inventory hierarchies only the first level of the hierarchy is validated faster, so creating a local smart rule can still take a long time
```

> if the group has hundreds of descendants deeper in hierarchy and all of them are chosen as `enabledSources`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if the group has hundreds of descendants deeper in the hierarchy and all of them are selected as `enabledSources`.
```
